Previously on
"Yu‐Gi‐Oh! ARC‐V"...
(Melissa)Y'all, let's give a
warm yeehaw to the duelists
dukin' it out
in the opening match
of the Friendship Cup...
local boy Crow Hogan and
the visitin' Gong Strong!
Did she say Gong?!
Gong is here?
(air horn blowing)
(tires squealing)
Let's duel!
Gong Synchro Summons...
Superheavy Samurai
Beast Kyubi!
(roaring)
Kyubi!
I Synchro Summon!
Assault Blackwing‐‐
Kusanagi the Gathering Storm!
(growling)
Bring the thunder and lightning
and attack Gong's Kyubi!
(thunder crashing)
No way!
(Melissa)
Local yokel Crow Hogan
and his team
of feathered fighters
win the openin' duel!
Whoopee!
You were terrif, Crow!
♪
♪ Hey hey,
Can you feel the power? ♪
♪ You vs. me
Competition for the victory ♪
♪ I could be the best one day
and make history ♪
♪ Swing into action
Are you ready to play? ♪
♪ Challenge anyone anywhere
any day ♪
♪ You wanna take a chance
Go 'head and roll the dice ♪
♪ See if it's in your cards
If you'll pay the price ♪
♪ Activate the spell
Let your powers come to life ♪
♪ It's showtime
Who will win the fight? ♪
♪ I'm ready to duel
Go 'head and make your move ♪
♪ I'll win this duel
You can't beat my moves ♪
♪ I'm in that groove
I know I can't lose ♪
♪ Your turn your tricks
Now what will you choose? ♪
♪ Can you feel
the power? ♪
♪ I'll win this duel
You can't beat my moves ♪
♪ I'm in that groove
I know I can't lose ♪
♪ Your turn your tricks
Now what will you choose? ♪
♪ Can you feel the power? ♪
(crowd cheering)
(Melissa)
The Friendship Cup's
off to a rootin'‐tootin' start!
And all the
hootin‐n'‐hollerin' ya hear is
for Crow Hogan,
the winner of
our debut duel!
Way to work
those cards, Crow!
You were rocktastic!
You'renumero uno!
I knew you'd soar
into the next round!
Crow dueled well
for a Common,
and that Gong,
he certainly showed
some potential.
Too bad potential
doesn't make
for a winner.
It would have been nice
to see him continue on.
Seeing underdogs
overachieving is fun.
His technique was unique,
like his physique.
What a purty sight!
The whole city's actin' like
one big, happy family!
This is what the Friendship
Cup's all about!
Hippety‐hip... yeehaw!
♪
I can't believe Gong lost.
He must feel terrible.
And now I can't even see him
to cheer him up
because of the High Council's
ridiculous rules.
(Azul)
All of the sixteen
Friendship Cup participants
will enjoy the same amenities
as you
for the duration
of the tournament.
(Boldo)
However, you may only remain
in the lap of luxury
as long as you're
in the tournament.
(Azul)
If you lose,
you will be removed at once.
Now that Gong's been knocked out
of the tournament,
where's he gonna stay?
Oh, no!
What if they send him
back to The Facility?!
I mean,
I already lost a duel too,
even if it was
just an exhibition match.
Doesn't seem fair
that I get to stay here.
(beep, click)
Huh?
(thinking)
Then again, maybe I won't be
sticking around for much longer!
'Cause it looks
like it's my turn to duel.
What if I have to duel
one of the other Lancers?
(heartbeat thumping)
Or even worse... Zuzu.
Either way...
nobody wins!
♪
(Yuya, thinking)
Looks like it's my turn
to duel in the Friendship Cup.
I don't want to face
one of my friends.
But it looks
like I don't have any choice!
(heartbeat thumping)
I wonder who it will be?
Hey! Just popped in
to say hi, Yuya!
Chojiro?!
Shh...!
Huh?
Keep it down, Yuya.
You're going to get both of us
in major trouble.
How'd you get out?
I thought
that we were all in lockdown.
(chuckles)
Locks are like noses.
Both of them
are made to be picked.
Uh...
Hmm... on second thought...
are they really like noses?
I mean, locks can't smell,
and we don't use noses
to protect our valuables...
Oh, yeah... that sure is
something to think about.
(Guide)
C'mon, wrap it up!
Huh?
These security guards
will be back from their lunch
before you know it‐‐
they're all chew and no chat.
And I'm not risking my tail
over one rare card.
Huh? You're bribing people
with rare cards again?
Shh! Why don't you just
broadcast it to the whole city?
Uh, you do realize that there
are security cameras
in all of our rooms, right?
What?!
Well, if they want to
lock me up again,
they're more than welcome to‐‐
I have a lot of reading
to catch up on.
(gasps)
Speak for yourself!
Please go
back to your room!
I don't wanna become
a jailbird!
Well, maybe you should've
thought of that
when you accepted
my rare card!
A deal's a deal,
so deal with it!
Now zip the lip!
Consider it zipped!
What's so urgent
that you had to
talk to me right now?
Because...
I heard some news
that you needed to hear.
And it just couldn't wait?
No, it's way too important.
I overheard some workers
shooting the breeze
outside my room earlier today...
(man 1)
These duelists and their fancy
schmancy rooms make me sick!
Even if it is just temporary for
the tournament, it's not right!
(man 2)
Yeah! Crow and Shinji and
Chojiro are all from the slums!
They're no better
than you or me,
but now they're bein' treated
like VIP Topsiders!
(man 1)
Why should they get
special treatment?
I hope they all lose!
(Chojiro)
Listening to those halfwits
made me so furious,
I was ready to give them
a piece of my mind,
but just as I was
about to unleash my wrath...
(man 3)
Aah, don't get jealous.
Don't you guys know
what happens to the duelists
that lose their matches?
(man 2)
Sure, I do.
Once they lose, the duelists get
kicked outta their fancy digs.
(man 3)
Nah, it's worse than that.
The losers get hauled off
somewhere not very nice.
(man 2)
The Facility?
(man 3)
Nah, someplace way worse!
(man 1)
Seriously?
(man 2)
Where do the take them?!
Don't tell anybody
you heard this from me
They're sent underground to work
in a gigantic garbage dump‐‐
and I bet
it don't smell like roses!
♪
They're forced
to clean up garbage?!
Are you serious, Chojiro?!
Yes. I'd always heard stories
about this place.
I thought they were just rumors,
but it sounds like there is
truth to these tales.
Sector Security
only transports
special prisoners
to that site.
What do you mean
"special"?
Escapees... and anyone else
who's a threat to their system.
Huh?!
(Chojiro)
Whenever a prisoner gets caught
planning or trying
to escape,
his pals get punished, too.
I didn't
do nothing!
(Chojiro)
The guards round them all up...
drag them off...
and nobody ever sees them again.
It gets worse.
The prisoners are forced to work
until they drop.
There's no mercy for the weak.
Our knowledge is based solely
on whispers from below
because no one has ever
returned from there.
I'm not surprised
such a place exists
because I've lived through
the history of this city.
For a long time, our metropolis
has been constantly expanding...
but during the ten years
I was held in detention,
the growth spiraled
out of control.
Tens of millions of people
are now crammed
into a relatively small area.
The majority of the people in
this city dwell in the slums,
where the Commons live
in extreme poverty,
struggling from day to day
just to survive.
The lucky few, however,
live as Topsiders.
These people enjoy
a life of complete luxury
and flaunt their wealth
and status
without any thought for those
less fortunate than they are.
As a result
of this wasteful lifestyle,
mountains of garbage constantly
piled up, blanketing our homes.
Our leaders couldn't
ignore the problem forever,
which is why they constructed
the underground waste refinery.
Of course, the Topsiders
who created the problem
refuse to get
their hands dirty.
Instead, they've left
their mess
for Commons
to take care of...
while they continue
to live the life of luxury.
They use us and throw us away.
To them,
our lives are no different
than the garbage
they thoughtlessly discard.
Right now, we live like kings.
But if we lose,
we are worse than peasants.
Gong lost his duel.
Does that mean he was
sent to the refinery?
I am afraid so.
That's horrible!
(Melissa)
Nothin's horrible
when it comes
to the Friendship Cup!
Am I right, cowboys
and girls?
I'm as happy as a hound
with a hambone
to show y'all
who our next duelists are!
He may be a Common,
but there's nothing common
about Shinji Weber!
He faces a young'un
with enough talent
to fill a
two‐story silo‐‐
Riley Akaba!
Riley?!
♪
(beep, click)
Morning, Riley!
You've been summoned to duel
and it's my pleasure
to escort you.
(groans)
Is something wrong?
(Declan)
Don't worry, Riley.
Huh?
Declan!
Everything will be okay.
Uh...
Come now.
Your duel will begin soon.
There's nothing
for you to fear.
Uh‐uh...
Riley, do not disobey me.
Duel and show these people
what you can do.
Uhh! I won't!
Of course you will.
You will do as I say.
As you always have,
isn't that right?
(panting and groaning)
I...
I won't duel!
I'm not dueling...
and you can't make me!
I will get Riley.
No,
Moon Shadow.
I will.
♪
I can't believe they're
making Riley Turbo Duel!
Riley can't even
reach the pedals!
Age is no indication
of ability.
Perhaps Riley's
dueling skills
will rival
those of his opponent's.
(mutters angrily)
Riley is just a kid!
And trust me,
these duel runners are no joke.
Declan's risking Riley's safety
just to show
that his Lancers can duel!
I did not mean to suggest
that it was okay
to send the little one to duel.
Sending Riley out there
is like sending a fly
into a frog convention!
There's nothing friendly
about this Friendship Cup!
And if Riley loses this duel,
they're gonna send a kid
to clean up trash!
(Guide)
Um, excuse me?
Huh?
But could you guys
hurry this up?
My allergist says
I'm allergic to fear
and, oh, spinning!
Riley! What are you
doing here?
(whimpering)
Calm down, Riley.
I know you're scared
about your duel.
Mm‐mm.
(Declan)
I'll handle this.
Huh?
Another visitor?
Declan!
What are you
doing here?
♪
Declan!
What are you
doing here?
Stay out of
family business, Yuya.
Don't worry.
(whimpers)
I'll protect you.
I can't believe
you're making Riley duel.
This isn't
child's play, Declan.
Riley doesn't
stand a chance.
They're going to drive
circles around the kid!
You see how scared
Riley is?
Joining the Lancers
was your idea
and yours alone!
I don't even know
why you made Riley
come on this mission.
I chose to fight Duel Academy,
just like Gong and the others.
We all accepted the danger.
That's not true for Riley.
Can't you see
Riley doesn't want
any part of this mission?
It's already
too much to handle
and we've only been here
for, like, a week!
♪
You knew all along.
You knew Riley'd
react this way!
But you still
brought Riley along!
Tell me why!
I demand an answer!
You owe us
an explanation, Declan.
If not to me,
then at least to Riley.
He's losing it.
(Declan)
Yuya...
Huh?
I owe you nothing.
And you know nothing
about what Riley's role is
among the Lancers.
Riley needs to learn
how to duel
when the stakes
are at the highest.
Oh, come on! Riley's just a kid
who should be getting ice cream,
not lessons on combat!
I know what Riley is
capable of.
Grr...
Riley is as powerful
as you or any of the Lancers.
Doesn't mean you can force
the poor kid to duel!
You also asked
why I insisted
on enlisting Riley
as one of the Lancers.
That answer
is more complicated.
I must admit, the decision
was not an easy one,
but I am certain Riley
must be part of our mission.
Naturally, the very idea
of entering into battle
makes Riley anxious.
That's understandable.
But you must understand
that we need Riley.
The skills Riley possesses
will help us eradicate
Duel Academy forever.
But think this through!
Even if what you're saying
is true, Declan...
it's not worth it.
It's way too risky!
You can't expect a kid
to go up against soldiers
from Duel Academy.
The decision is mine alone.
No, it's not, Declan!
How wrong you are.
You don't care, Declan, do you?!
Ohh...
Oh... please,
take it easy.
It'll be okay.
Hmm? Hmm.
Look...
I'm calling our deal
off, okay?!
This has been way more
than I bargained for!
I don't wanna be found
with you crackpots
when security shows up!
Keep your rare card!
This bellhop
is hoppin' outta here!
Declan, don't you
have a heart?
All Riley wanted
was to see you
ever since we got
to this dimension.
♪
Please...
where's my big brother?
Do you know?
(Yuya)
Even after Crow rescued us, I
could see how worried Riley was.
Nothing anybody said or did
was going to make things right.
The only thing Riley cared about
was seeing you again, Declan.
Uh, Riley? You okay?
I'm going to find Declan!
Hold up!
Riley, we can't be
wandering around.
I don't care.
Look, I know
how important it is
that you find Declan...
But that's why
you should wait.
Until we have a better
chance of finding him.
Maybe you don't
realize it, Declan,
but you mean
everything to Riley.
Riley idolizes you,
even though you only
brought the poor kid
here to this world
to fight for your cause!
I've had enough!
You can't force Riley
to fight!
I won't let you do it!
Maybe you haven't heard
but the people running
the Friendship Cup
have a special place
where they send duelists
who lose
in the tournament.
They'll take Riley
away... forever!
I won't let that happen!
♪
I answered
all of your questions, Yuya.
Now...
I would like to ask Riley
a question.
Huh?!
If you are indeed
refusing to duel today,
I would like to know why.
Because Riley's scared‐‐
what else could it be?
Riley, I am asking you
the question.
Answer me.
Leave Riley alone!
Give me your answer.
♪
I... won't duel today...
because my opponent is Shinji...
(groans)
He gave... me a donut.
Yeah... I remember.
Oh, hey, why don't you come over
and join us too, sport?
There's plenty to go around.
Especially when it comes to
donuts, get it?
'Cause they're round?
Shinji was nice.
He didn't want you
to feel... all alone.
I see now.
You are understandably
reluctant
to attack an opponent
who showed you kindness.
Moon Shadow...
Hmm.
You will battle
in place of Riley.
Of course.
♪
(heartbeat thumping)
Ohh...
Huh?
Declan, come back!
Don't leave me!
Riley, wait! Unh!
Please don't be mad at me,
big brother!
I'm sorry! I'll do
anything you want me to do!
Only please don't ever
leave me again!
If you order me to duel...
I'll duel!
I'm not mad at you.
Exactly the opposite,
in fact.
Your reaction today
shows me that you
are finally starting
to make your own decisions.
I'm pleased
by this development.
Huh?
Unh? You are?
As Riley grows more confident,
Riley's abilities as a duelist
will surely grow as well.
Someday soon,
Riley will begin to develop
a skillset of strategies
and battle techniques
that will take the world
of dueling by storm.
(Yuya)
Declan, wait!
You don't really intend
to have Riley
duel in this tournament,
do you?!
Riley! Wait!
You don't have to do this!
I know you mean well,
but you must not interfere.
It seems Riley is deeply
attached to Declan.
You should respect
their relationship,
even if it's hard
for you to understand
why Declan treats Riley
the way he does.
Perhaps there is more going on
than you can see.
Sorry, but if
you don't mind
would you please
return to your own room
before security comes?
♪
Huh?
(door slams)
Riley...
(Declan, thinking)
Mother would be
surprised to learn
that Riley is developing
a sense of identity,
but I'm not sure
she would be pleased.
♪
What? Riley
lacks the ability
to make decisions?
Yes.
Riley has no awareness
of having an identity.
Otherwise this child's brain
is normal.
But Riley's completely passive
and desires nothing.
In other words,
Riley's an empty shell.
My research team believes
this lack of self‐awareness
could be some kind
of survival mechanism.
It's clear Riley grew up
in a harsh environment, you see.
That is quite unfortunate.
Where exactly
did that kid come from?
(Henrietta)
Riley comes
from a land in turmoil.
War pitted
neighbor against neighbor.
I'm not sure what happened
to Riley's family.
The poor child had no one.
In order to survive, Riley was
forced to turn to strangers
throughout the conflict.
And so Riley learned to adapt
and became
a kind of human chameleon.
A human chameleon?
The little one no longer knows
who Riley really is.
Instead, Riley
is completely submissive,
thinking and acting
only as others instruct.
Though technically human,
the child's really
more like a robot.
All Riley needs
is the proper programming.
We've been searching
for an instrument
to carry out our plans.
This Riley will be perfect.
Don't you agree?
♪
(Declan, thinking)
I believe Mother
would have a fit
if she learned that you were
developing your own personality.
♪
If she had her way,
Riley would remain
an empty shell forever.
Whoo‐whee!
Apologies for
the long delay,
but we hit a few extra bumps
on the wagon trail today.
But that's all
cleared up now
and we're rarin' to get
this duel rollin'!
First, let's reintroduce
our competitors!
Please give a hoot
and a howdy‐doo
for the dashin' duelist,
Shinji Webber
and his opponent,
the rookie, Riley Akaba...!
Yah?! Spin my spurs!
That Akaba sure did
grow some legs!
He looks a lot taller
decked out in black!
Huh? Not him?!
Glory be! Aah!
What in tarnation's
goin' on?!
If that ain't Riley, then who
is that mysterious masked
man?!
Shinji and Moon Shadow.
This duel's gonna be intense!
♪